1. Creating the database with encoding of utf-8

2. `django.utils.encoding` functions:

    - smart_unicode
    - force_unicode
    - smart_str

    Normally, you'll only need to use `smart_unicode()`. Call it as early as possible on any input data that might be either Unicode or a `bytestring`, and from then on, you can treat the result as always being Unicode.

3. The functions `django.utils.http.urlquote()` and `django.utils.http.urlquote_plus()` are versions of Python’s standard `urllib.quote()` and `urllib.quote_plus()` that work with non-ASCII characters. (The data is converted to UTF-8 prior to encoding.)

    The `iri_to_uri()` function will not change ASCII characters that are otherwise permitted in a URL. So, for example, the character ‘%’ is not further encoded when passed to `iri_to_uri()`. This means you can pass a full URL to this function and it will not mess up the query string or anything like that.

    An example might clarify things here:

    <code class="python">
    >>> urlquote(u'Paris & Orléans')
    u'Paris%20%26%20Orl%C3%A9ans'
    >>> iri_to_uri(u'/favorites/François/%s' % urlquote(u'Paris & Orléans'))
    '/favorites/Fran%C3%A7ois/Paris%20%26%20Orl%C3%A9ans'
    </code>

    If you look carefully, you can see that the portion that was generated by `urlquote()` in the second example was not double-quoted when passed to `iri_to_uri()`. This is a very important and useful feature.

4. All strings are returned from the database as Unicode strings.

    In particular, rather than giving your model a `__str__()` method, we recommended you implement a `__unicode__()` method.


5. Taking care in `get_absolute_url()`

    <code class="python">
    def get_absolute_url(self):
        url = u'/person/%s/?x=0&y=0' % urlquote(self.location)
        return iri_to_uri(url)
    </code>

6. Always return Unicode strings from a template tag's render() method and from template filters. Use `force_unicode()` in preference to `smart_unicode()` in these places.

From: [Django Docs](http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/unicode/#ref-unicode)